A stage is a group set of tasks.
It is a physical unit of the execution plan.
In other word, a stage can be divided into a smaller sets of tasks.
However, these tasks totally depend on each other.
We can say Spark stages are similar to the map and reduce stages in Hadoop MapReduce.
Let's take a look at this piece of code.
It's a simple word count example.
We can easily come up with our RDD graph for this code.
Here we have readFile, map,
flatMap, map and the reduceByKey and also right.
Parquet just represents which file you would like to save to your file system.
Based on this graph there are two stages created,
we already know that we have two stages because
we know that it will split on reduceByKey.
So stage one would be readFile, map,
flatMap and other map which is a local account.
So there's an x and the one count.
The stage two will start from global word count which is reduce.
There are two types of stages in ApacheSpark,
ShuffleMapStage and a ResultStage.
ShuffleMapStage Is considered to be
an intermediate Spark stage in the physical execution of DAGs.
It produces data for other stages.
At the time of execution a Spark ShuffleMapStage saves map output files.
We can fetch these files by Reduce tasks.
When all map outputs are available,
the ShuffleMapStage is considered ready or available.
Sometimes output locations can be missing.
When the output locations are missing,
this implies that these partitions might not have
been calculated or they might have been lost.
We can easily calculate loss partitions by using internal registries like
output logs or none available outputs
to track how many shuffle map outputs are available.
Then you can calculate if all expected outputs are available.
A ResultStage is considered a final stage in a Spark job.
This computes the result of an action.
In this code, the stage that was created by
the reduceByKey and all the way up to right would be the ResultStage,
anything before reduceByKey would be the ShuffleMapSstage.